In the first century, the Apostle Paul received division in which he was invited to step over into Macedonia.
Paul and his traveling companions eagerly accepted the invitation and they enjoyed Jehovah's rich blessing as evidenced in the positive results they experienced in their ministry.
Today, the Service Committee is as eager to follow the lead of the Holy Spirit as Paul was in the first century.
There are still many parts of the world where branches need publishers to step over and help them give a thorough witness.
To meet the need, the Service Committee has arranged for such branches to receive assistance by means of special preaching campaigns.
Local publishers and exemplary brothers and sisters from other lands are invited to participate.
Often, such publishers who respond to the initial invitation later decide to move to these areas of need.
In recent years, special preaching campaigns have been held in Africa, Asia, Europe and South America.
What have been some of the results of such special preaching campaigns?
In the recent past, more than a million Arabic-speaking refugees have fled to Europe.
The Service Committee arranged for the Central Europe branch to hold a special preaching campaign to reach these refugees.
More than 600 publishers from different parts of the world participated and they distributed some 30,000 pieces of literature.
Many of the refugees have been very receptive to the good news.
Even approaching publishers at the literature carts and asking, can you help us? What does the Bible actually teach?
This special campaign concluded with an Arabic language regional convention which was a milestone for the Arabic field.
Over 1,600 attended from 43 different countries. Approximately 25% of those in attendance were interested persons.
Outstanding campaigns have also been held in Bulgaria.
In 2009, Bulgaria reported a publisher to population ratio of 1 to 4,600.
Since then, four special preaching campaigns have been held there and 1,782 publishers from countries throughout Europe participated.
They placed over 175,000 pieces of literature started 1,775 Bible studies and eight congregations and seven groups have been formed.
Consider one example. Before 2010, there were no witnesses in the village of Carlovo.
That year, a special preaching campaign was organized. As a result, a man named Gosho was contacted.
From his own reading of the Bible, he realized that the local churches do not teach the truth, so he stopped attending church services, but never stopped praying.
During the campaign, he met Jehovah's Witnesses in the street. They wanted to talk with him about the Bible, but he interrupted them.
He interrupted them and asked, do you believe that Jesus is equal to God? The brothers answered, no.
Do you believe that God has a Trinity? Do you collect a taith? The brothers again answered, no.
Then your welcome in my home said Gosho. Immediately, a Bible study was started with him and his wife Ivanka and their son Bogomil.
Both Ivanka and Bogomil are now baptized. Senegal has a vast, untouched territory.
In 2015, the country's publisher to population ratio was one to more than 12,000. In recent years, the service committee arranged for three special preaching campaigns in Senegal.
One sister from Portugal asked a householder if she believed that God had the power to resurrect the dead.
In a ridiculing way, the woman replied, you mean my dead husband, who's been dead a long time will come out of the grave. Is this what you are telling me?
The sister answered, that is what God has promised to do. He will resurrect him alive in the flesh, seeing that the sister was serious.
The woman asked, is it really possible? The sister answered, it is written in God's word. With great joy, the woman started to dance.
The sister highlighted information on the resurrection in the listen to God brochure, again the woman started dancing with joy.
In Romania, there are some four and a half million people who live in unassigned territories.
During a two-month campaign, publishers covered 1,359 localities with the population of 1.8 million. The publishers started more than 1,000 Bible studies.
Here is just one experience. Castell and Luminica were very active in their Orthodox religion.
However, Luminica could not find answers to her Bible questions, and Castell saw much hypocrisy with the priests.
Luminica heard about Jehovah's Witnesses from her neighbor, who studied the Bible by telephone with a witness relative.
During the special campaign, two brothers knocked on the couple's door.
Luminica was happy that Jehovah's Witnesses had finally come to preach in her village. She immediately accepted a Bible study.
Eventually, Castell and their two teenage children joined in the study. The family immediately put into practice what they learned from the Bible.
After the family learned on their own that witnesses do not celebrate birthdays, they told their study conductors.
We don't want to keep sending against Jehovah. How many other things are we doing that Jehovah hates? Tell us everything that we are doing wrong so that we can stop.
In seven months, the entire family began preaching with the congregation. After one month of sharing in the ministry,
they had started three Bible studies in the village. One year after their first contact with Jehovah's Witnesses,
Castell and Luminica were baptized at their first regional convention.
Now, Castell is a ministerial servant, and both children are progressing very well spiritually.
Have you ever shared in preaching and seldom worked or unassigned territories? Such concerted efforts have yielded great success in many countries.
For example, the Brazil branch invited publishers throughout the branch territory to participate in a preaching effort that focused on the thousands living along the Amazon River.
More than 10,000 local brothers and sisters gave their support.
In one congregation's territory, some 400 people requested a Bible study.
Many of those who participated in the preaching effort described it as a life-changing experience, and some decided to move to the Amazon region.
In December 2015, five congregations in this region had a total of six elders, two ministerial servants, nine regular pioneers and 50 publishers.
By July 2016, those numbers had increased tremendously.
In those five congregations, the six elders increased to 22. The two ministerial servants increased to 17. The nine regular pioneers became 80, and the 50 publishers grew to 177.
In total, over 865 publishers from Brazil permanently stepped over into the Amazon region, and seven new congregations were formed.
It's clear that Jehovah is richly blessing such preaching efforts. Reports such as this strengthen our resolve to do all that our circumstances allow to reach as many as possible with the good news.